CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

Thanks for your willingness to contribute! Please make sure to check with me
before doing a bunch of work on something.

## Project setup

If you do need to set the project up locally yourself, feel free to follow these
instructions:

### System Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 20.0.0
- [npm](https://npmjs.com/) >= 8.18.0
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) >= 2.38.0

### Setup steps

1.  Fork repo
2.  clone the repo
3.  Copy `.env.example` into `.env`
4.  Run `npm install && npm run setup -s` to install dependencies and run
    validation
5.  Create a branch for your PR with `git checkout -b pr/your-branch-name`

> Tip: Keep your `main` branch pointing at the original repository and make pull
> requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/main main
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream," Then
> fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `main` branch
> to use the upstream main branch whenever you run `git pull`. Then you can make
> all of your pull request branches based on this `main` branch. Whenever you
> want to update your version of `main`, do a regular `git pull`.

If the setup script doesn't work, you can try to run the commands manually:

```sh
git clone <your-fork>
cd ./epic-stack

# copy the .env.example to .env
#   everything's mocked out during development so you shouldn't need to
#   change any of these values unless you want to hit real environments.
cp .env.example .env

# Install deps
npm install

# Run the build
npm run build

# setup the database
npx prisma migrate deploy

# generate the prisma client
npx prisma generate --sql

# Install playwright browsers
npm run test:e2e:install

# run build, typecheck, linting
npm run validate
```

If that all worked without trouble, you should be able to start development
with:

```sh
npm run dev
```

And open up `http://localhost:3000` and rock!

## Help Needed

There's something to be said for custom code and the ability that grants with
regard to tuning it to be exactly what you need. But there's also something to
be said for offloading maintenance onto external dependencies. There are likely
several bits of code in this codebase that could benefit from externalization.
There could even be some things that could be improved by existing libraries.

Feel free to take any code from within this project and turn it into an open
source library (appropriate attribution is appreciated). Then come back and make
a PR to use your new library.

NOTE: Actual adoption of your library is not guaranteed. Offloading maintenance
and adaptability is a delicate balance.

Commit message:

use varlock instead of dotenv, convert .env.example into .env.schema
- replaces dotenv with varlock
- convert .env.example into .env.schema
- ensure env is still loaded correctly
- add additional env vars found in codebase to schema
clean up schema

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

Thanks for your willingness to contribute! Please make sure to check with me
before doing a bunch of work on something.

## Project setup

If you do need to set the project up locally yourself, feel free to follow these
instructions:

### System Requirements

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) >= 20.0.0
- [npm](https://npmjs.com/) >= 8.18.0
- [git](https://git-scm.com/) >= 2.38.0

### Setup steps

1.  Fork repo
2.  clone the repo
3.  Run `npm install && npm run setup -s` to install dependencies and run
    validation
4.  Create a branch for your PR with `git checkout -b pr/your-branch-name`

> Tip: Keep your `main` branch pointing at the original repository and make pull
> requests from branches on your fork. To do this, run:
>
> ```
> git remote add upstream https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack.git
> git fetch upstream
> git branch --set-upstream-to=upstream/main main
> ```
>
> This will add the original repository as a "remote" called "upstream," Then
> fetch the git information from that remote, then set your local `main` branch
> to use the upstream main branch whenever you run `git pull`. Then you can make
> all of your pull request branches based on this `main` branch. Whenever you
> want to update your version of `main`, do a regular `git pull`.

If the setup script doesn't work, you can try to run the commands manually:

```sh
git clone <your-fork>
cd ./epic-stack

# create a file for gitignored .env overrides
#   everything's mocked out during development so you shouldn't need to
#   set anything unless you want to hit real environments.
touch .env.local

# Install deps
npm install

# Run the build
npm run build

# setup the database
npx prisma migrate deploy

# generate the prisma client
npx prisma generate --sql

# Install playwright browsers
npm run test:e2e:install

# run build, typecheck, linting
npm run validate
```

If that all worked without trouble, you should be able to start development
with:

```sh
npm run dev
```

And open up `http://localhost:3000` and rock!

## Help Needed

There's something to be said for custom code and the ability that grants with
regard to tuning it to be exactly what you need. But there's also something to
be said for offloading maintenance onto external dependencies. There are likely
several bits of code in this codebase that could benefit from externalization.
There could even be some things that could be improved by existing libraries.

Feel free to take any code from within this project and turn it into an open
source library (appropriate attribution is appreciated). Then come back and make
a PR to use your new library.

NOTE: Actual adoption of your library is not guaranteed. Offloading maintenance
and adaptability is a delicate balance.
