docs/database.md, before:

# Database

## Primary Instance

The way that LiteFS works is that it has a "primary instance" that is the only
instance that can write to the database. All other instances are "replicas" that
can only read from the database. This is a pretty common pattern for databases
and it's how Fly's Postgres service works as well.

The primary instance is determined by Fly's [consul](https://www.consul.io/)
service and can change over time. By default, all instances are allowed to be
primary instances. However, writes will be slower for people who are not
geographically close to the primary instance, so the Epic Stack has configured
consul to only allow instances in the primary region and it's recommended that
you choose a primary region that's closest to most of your users. This
configuration can be found in `other/litefs.yml`. The `PRIMARY_REGION` is
determined from the `primary_region` property in the `fly.toml` file.

When you initialize an Epic Stack app, it will ask you which region you wish to
deploy to and this will set the `primary_region` in the `fly.toml` file. It is
recommended that you deploy two instances in this region so you have zero
downtime deploys.

You can determine which instance is the primary instance by running the
following command:

```sh
fly status --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
```

This will show you a table of all your instances and the primary instance will
have "ROLE" set to "primary".

To deploy more regions, you can run `fly scale count`. For example, if I wanted
to have two instances in `sjc` (my primary region) and one in `ams`, I would
run:

```sh
fly scale count 2 --region sjc
fly scale count 1 --region ams
```

## Connecting to your production database

The location of the sqlite database is kinda funny. The real location is in
`/data/litefs/dbs/sqlite.db`. However, during development you connect to it via
the fake filesystem managed by LiteFS so it can propagate any changes to your
database to all replicas.

So to connect to your database, you'll want to connect to it at
`/litefs/data/sqlite.db` in the deployed application. Because it is SQLite, you
cannot connect to it unless you're running a command-line session on the
machine. You can do this using `fly ssh console`. The Dockerfile simplifies this
further by adding a `database-cli` command. You can connect to the live database
by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli`.

To connect to the deployed database from your local machine using Prisma Studio,
you can utilize Fly's `ssh` and `proxy` commands.

- Run in one terminal the command to start Prisma Studio on your desired Fly app
  ```sh
  fly ssh console -C "npm run prisma:studio" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Run in a second terminal the command to proxy your local port 5556 to Prisma
  Studio
  ```sh
  fly proxy 5556:5555 --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```

If you have multiple instances of your app running, and you'd like to make edits
to your database, you will need to run `prisma:studio` on the primary instance.

- Get a list of your app instances, the `ROLE` column will show which instance
  is `primary`
  ```sh
  fly status --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Run the console command with the `-s` select flag
  ```sh
  fly ssh console -C "npm run prisma:studio" -s --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Use your arrow keys to select the primary instance

To work with Prisma Studio and your deployed app's database, simply open
`http://localhost:5556` in your browser.

> **Note**: You may want to add `--select` to the `fly ssh console` command to
> select the instance you want to connect to if you have multiple instances
> running. Otherwise you could connect to a non-primary instance. The easiest
> way to determine the primary instance (because it can change) is to run
> `fly status` and the row that has "ROLE" set to "primary" is the primary
> instance. Alternatively, you can open the deployed application and check the
> request headers. One of them will be `Fly-Primary-Instance` which will tell
> you the instance ID of the primary instance.

## Migrations

Thanks to Prisma, we've got a great mechanism for handling database migrations.
Any migrations necessary are run (by the primary instance only) as part of the
deploy process. You can find this in the `other/litefs.yml` file.

We deploy to multiple instances at once and the way we deploy means we don't
have any downtime during deploys. However, to make this work, you do need to
make sure you can run two versions of your app at once. Specifically, you should
not deploy "breaking schema changes" to your app in a way that will break any
running instances. This is a pretty typical requirement for production
applications.

The basic idea is that you maintain support for any client that is currently
running. In Epic Stack apps that's normally just the currently running version
of the app. So you really only need to worry about "breaking schema changes"
whenever you deploy a new version, but you don't have to worry about avoiding
breaking schema changes for old versions of the app that are no longer running.

In practice, this means you should adopt a "widen then narrow" strategy for
schema migrations. This is a pretty common practice, but here's a simple example
of how this works (each step here is an individual deploy):

1. Widen app to consume A or B
2. Widen db to provide A and B and the app to write to both A and B
3. Narrow app to consume B and only write to B
4. Narrow db to provide B

So, let's say that today your app allows users to provide a "name" and you want
to change that to `firstName` and `lastName` instead. Here's how you'd do that
(again, each of these steps end in a deploy):

1. Widen app to consume `firstName` and `lastName` or `name`. So all new code
   that references the `firstName` and `lastName` fields should fallback to the
   `name` field and not error if the `firstName` and `lastName` fields don't
   exist yet, which it won't at this point.
2. Widen db to provide `firstName` and `lastName` and `name`. So the `name`
   field should be populated with the `firstName` and `lastName` fields. You can
   do this as part of the migration SQL script that you run. The easiest way to
   do this is to generate the migration script to add the fields using
   `prisma migrate` and then modify the script to copy the existing data in the
   `name` field to the `firstName` field (maybe with the help of VSCode Copilot
   😅).
3. Narrow app to consume `firstName` and `lastName` by only writing to those
   fields and removing the fallback to the `name` field.
4. Narrow db to provide `firstName` and `lastName` by removing the `name` field.
   So now you can remove the `name` field from the db schema.

By following this strategy, you can ensure zero downtime deploys and schema
migrations.

## Seeding Production

In this application we have Role-based Access Control implemented. We initialize
the database with `admin` and `user` roles with appropriate permissions.

This is done in the `migration.sql` file that's included in the template. If you
need to seed the production database, modifying migration files manually is the
recommended approach to ensure it's reproducible.

The trick is not all of us are really excited about writing raw SQL (especially
if what you need to seed is a lot of data), so here's an easy way to help out:

1. Create a script very similar to our `prisma/seed.ts` file which creates all
   the data you want to seed.
   ```sh nonumber
   cp prisma/seed.ts ./prod-seed.local.ts
   ```
   Then modify that file to create the data you want to seed.
1. Create a temporary database file to seed the data into.
   ```sh
   DATABASE_URL=file:./seed.local.db npx prisma migrate reset --skip-seed --force
   ```
1. Run the custom seed script locally to generate the data you want to seed.
   ```sh
   DATABASE_URL=file:./seed.local.db npx tsx ./prod-seed.local.ts
   ```
1. Create a "dump" of the seed database using the `sqlite3` command line tool.
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 ./prisma/seed.local.db .dump > seed.local.sql
   ```
1. Copy the relevant bits from the `seed.local.sql` file into your
   `migration.sql` file. The `seed.local.sql` will include create table/index
   lines etc. which should already be in your `migration.sql`. You probably just
   want `INSERT` commands.
1. Deploy your app and verify that the data was seeded correctly.

If your app has already applied all migrations, then the changes to the
`migration.sql` won't be applied (because prisma's already applied it). So then
you can run the following command to apply the migration:

```sh nonumber
fly ssh console -C "npx prisma migrate reset --skip-seed --force" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
```

> **WARNING**: This will reset your database and apply all migrations. Continue
> reading if you want to avoid this.

If you have existing data in your production database and you'd like to seed it
with more data without performing a migration, then it's a bit more involved.

1. Backup your production database.
1. Create a new database file (locally) with the data you want to seed.
1. Create a "dump" of the seed database using the `sqlite3` command line tool.
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 seed.db .dump > seed.sql
   ```
1. Copy the `seed.sql` file to your production volume next to your database (via
   `fly sftp`)
1. SSH into your production server and run the following command:
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 /tmp/data.db < seed.sql
   ```
1. Import the data into your database via litefs:
   ```sh nonumber
   litefs import -name sqlite.db /tmp/data.db
   ```
1. Verify that your production database has been seeded correctly. If it hasn't,
   then restore your backup (asap).

## Backups

### LiteFS Cloud Backups

LiteFS Cloud is a service offered by Fly.io for managing backup and restore
functionality.

This is the simplest method for backing up your database.

It offers the ability to restore your database to any point in time in the last
30 days, with 5 minute granularity.

Fly.io has some great documentation on how to set this up:

- [Pricing](https://fly.io/docs/about/pricing/#litefs-cloud)
- [LiteFS Cloud Setup](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/cloud-backups/)
- [Restoring DB with LiteFS Cloud](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/cloud-restore/)
- [Disaster Recovery with LiteFS Cloud](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/disaster-recovery/)

The following is a summary of the steps to set up LiteFS Cloud:

1. Create a LiteFS Cloud cluster in your Fly.io dashboard:
   https://fly.io/dashboard/personal/litefs
   - Take note of the auth token, you'll need it in the next step
1. Set the `LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN` to the token from your dashboard:
   ```sh
   fly secrets set LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN="LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN_HERE" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. You should now be able to restore backups from the LiteFS dashboard.

### Manual DB Backups

Manual DB backups can be taken/restored using `litefs` commands:

- `litefs export`: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/export/
- `litefs import`: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/import/

**Make sure to keep the backup in a secure location. Your DB backup will contain
user information and password hashes!**

You can manually create a backup for your database using the following steps:

1. SSH into your fly instance:
   ```sh
   fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. Create a `backups` folder:
   ```sh
   mkdir /backups
   ```
1. Create a backup file using `litefs export`, and exit the console (it is
   recommended to name the exported file with the current date):
   ```sh
   litefs export -name sqlite.db /backups/backup-2023-10-10.db
   exit
   ```
1. Use sftp to download the backup file:
   ```sh
   fly ssh sftp get /backups/backup-2023-10-10.db --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```

You can now store this backup file wherever you like, such as an S3 bucket
(again, make sure it's a secure location!).

See the fly docs for more info: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/backup/

### Manual DB restoration

**WARNING - THIS OVERWRITES YOUR DATABASE, YOU CAN LOSE DATA!! TAKE ANOTHER
BACKUP OF THE CURRENT DATABASE BEFORE DOING THIS!!**

1. Establish an sftp session with the fly instance and upload the backup file to
   the server using `put`:
   ```sh
   fly ssh sftp shell --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   put backup-2023-10-10.db
   ```
1. Quit the sftp session with CTRL+C
1. SSH into the fly instance:
   ```sh
   fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. Restore the database from the backup file using `litefs import`
   ```sh
   litefs import -name sqlite.db /backup-2023-10-10.db
   ```
1. Exit the ssh session
   ```sh
   exit
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Faulty Prisma Migration

If you accidentally run a faulty migration on prod DB, and you see this message
in the logs:

```sh
migrate found failed migrations in the target database, new migrations will not be applied. Read more about how to resolve migration issues in a production database: https://pris.ly/d/migrate-resolve
```

You've got a few options:

1. If you don't care about the data, you can delete the app on fly and re-deploy
   it after deleting/fixing the faulty migration.
2. If you have a recent backup of the DB, you can restore it and re-deploy the
   app after deleting/fixing the faulty migration. **(Make sure that the backup
   isn't too old, otherwise you'll lose data)**
   - You can fix a faulty migration by either editing the migration SQL file, or
     by deleting the particular migration folder from `prisma/migrations` and
     re-generating the migration after fixing the error.
3. If you do care about the data and don't have a backup, you can follow these
   steps:

   1. Comment out the
      [`exec` section from `litefs.yml` file](https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack/blob/main/other/litefs.yml#L31-L37).

   ```yml
   # exec:
   #   - cmd: npx prisma migrate deploy
   #     if-candidate: true

   #   - cmd: npm start
   ```

   2. Commit this change and deploy the app to fly.
      - This will make sure that after building the dockerfile and deploying it
        to the fly machine, `npx prisma migrate deploy` and `npm start` commands won't be executed.
   3. Now that the main machine is up and running, you can SSH into it by
      running `fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]` in the terminal.
   4. Create a backup of the DB and download it by following the steps mentioned
      in the [Manual DB Backups](#manual-db-backups) section.
   5. Make a copy of the downloaded DB backup file and store it in a secure
      location (If something were to go wrong, we have a backup of the backup).
   6. Write SQL or use a tool like
      [DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) to remove the last
      (failed) entry from `_prisma_migrations` table from the downloaded DB
      backup file.
      - If you're using DB Browser for SQLite but your DB isn't selectable when
        selecting a file to open, change DB file extension to `sqlite` from
        `db`. **Make sure to change it back to `db` before uploading it to the
        fly machine**.
   7. Follow the steps mentioned in the
      [Manual DB restoration](#manual-db-restoration) section to restore the
      modified DB backup file to the fly machine.
   8. Now the DB is restored, but if you deploy the app with the faulty
      migration, it will fail again. So you need to delete/fix the faulty
      migration.
      - You can fix a faulty migration by either editing the migration SQL file,
        or by deleting the particular migration folder from `prisma/migrations`
        and re-generating the migration after fixing the error.
   9. Uncomment the
      [`exec` section from `litefs.yml` file](https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack/blob/main/other/litefs.yml#L31-L37).

   ```yml
   exec:
     - cmd: npx prisma migrate deploy
       if-candidate: true

     - cmd: npm start
   ```

   10. Commit this change and deploy the app to fly :tada:

   NOTE: Steps 5-7 can be skipped if you can write SQL to remove the faulty
   migration from the DB. You can use the following SQL query to remove the
   faulty migration from the DB:

   ```sql
   DELETE FROM _prisma_migrations WHERE name = 'migration_name';
   ```

   Make sure to replace `migration_name` with the name of the faulty migration.

This is particularly hard because of how CONSUL leases work. You cannot just
simply spin up another machine and access your database from it, because only
one machine can get the primary lease. So you have to disable exec commands so
the machine that has primary lease can start up, then you can SSH into it and
fix the DB.

Commit message:

feat: add note about multi-branch dev and schema conflicts

docs/database.md, after:

# Database

## Primary Instance

The way that LiteFS works is that it has a "primary instance" that is the only
instance that can write to the database. All other instances are "replicas" that
can only read from the database. This is a pretty common pattern for databases
and it's how Fly's Postgres service works as well.

The primary instance is determined by Fly's [consul](https://www.consul.io/)
service and can change over time. By default, all instances are allowed to be
primary instances. However, writes will be slower for people who are not
geographically close to the primary instance, so the Epic Stack has configured
consul to only allow instances in the primary region and it's recommended that
you choose a primary region that's closest to most of your users. This
configuration can be found in `other/litefs.yml`. The `PRIMARY_REGION` is
determined from the `primary_region` property in the `fly.toml` file.

When you initialize an Epic Stack app, it will ask you which region you wish to
deploy to and this will set the `primary_region` in the `fly.toml` file. It is
recommended that you deploy two instances in this region so you have zero
downtime deploys.

You can determine which instance is the primary instance by running the
following command:

```sh
fly status --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
```

This will show you a table of all your instances and the primary instance will
have "ROLE" set to "primary".

To deploy more regions, you can run `fly scale count`. For example, if I wanted
to have two instances in `sjc` (my primary region) and one in `ams`, I would
run:

```sh
fly scale count 2 --region sjc
fly scale count 1 --region ams
```

## Connecting to your production database

The location of the sqlite database is kinda funny. The real location is in
`/data/litefs/dbs/sqlite.db`. However, during development you connect to it via
the fake filesystem managed by LiteFS so it can propagate any changes to your
database to all replicas.

So to connect to your database, you'll want to connect to it at
`/litefs/data/sqlite.db` in the deployed application. Because it is SQLite, you
cannot connect to it unless you're running a command-line session on the
machine. You can do this using `fly ssh console`. The Dockerfile simplifies this
further by adding a `database-cli` command. You can connect to the live database
by running `fly ssh console -C database-cli`.

To connect to the deployed database from your local machine using Prisma Studio,
you can utilize Fly's `ssh` and `proxy` commands.

- Run in one terminal the command to start Prisma Studio on your desired Fly app
  ```sh
  fly ssh console -C "npm run prisma:studio" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Run in a second terminal the command to proxy your local port 5556 to Prisma
  Studio
  ```sh
  fly proxy 5556:5555 --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```

If you have multiple instances of your app running, and you'd like to make edits
to your database, you will need to run `prisma:studio` on the primary instance.

- Get a list of your app instances, the `ROLE` column will show which instance
  is `primary`
  ```sh
  fly status --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Run the console command with the `-s` select flag
  ```sh
  fly ssh console -C "npm run prisma:studio" -s --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
  ```
- Use your arrow keys to select the primary instance

To work with Prisma Studio and your deployed app's database, simply open
`http://localhost:5556` in your browser.

> **Note**: You may want to add `--select` to the `fly ssh console` command to
> select the instance you want to connect to if you have multiple instances
> running. Otherwise you could connect to a non-primary instance. The easiest
> way to determine the primary instance (because it can change) is to run
> `fly status` and the row that has "ROLE" set to "primary" is the primary
> instance. Alternatively, you can open the deployed application and check the
> request headers. One of them will be `Fly-Primary-Instance` which will tell
> you the instance ID of the primary instance.

## Migrations

Thanks to Prisma, we've got a great mechanism for handling database migrations.
Any migrations necessary are run (by the primary instance only) as part of the
deploy process. You can find this in the `other/litefs.yml` file.

We deploy to multiple instances at once and the way we deploy means we don't
have any downtime during deploys. However, to make this work, you do need to
make sure you can run two versions of your app at once. Specifically, you should
not deploy "breaking schema changes" to your app in a way that will break any
running instances. This is a pretty typical requirement for production
applications.

The basic idea is that you maintain support for any client that is currently
running. In Epic Stack apps that's normally just the currently running version
of the app. So you really only need to worry about "breaking schema changes"
whenever you deploy a new version, but you don't have to worry about avoiding
breaking schema changes for old versions of the app that are no longer running.

In practice, this means you should adopt a "widen then narrow" strategy for
schema migrations. This is a pretty common practice, but here's a simple example
of how this works (each step here is an individual deploy):

1. Widen app to consume A or B
2. Widen db to provide A and B and the app to write to both A and B
3. Narrow app to consume B and only write to B
4. Narrow db to provide B

So, let's say that today your app allows users to provide a "name" and you want
to change that to `firstName` and `lastName` instead. Here's how you'd do that
(again, each of these steps end in a deploy):

1. Widen app to consume `firstName` and `lastName` or `name`. So all new code
   that references the `firstName` and `lastName` fields should fallback to the
   `name` field and not error if the `firstName` and `lastName` fields don't
   exist yet, which it won't at this point.
2. Widen db to provide `firstName` and `lastName` and `name`. So the `name`
   field should be populated with the `firstName` and `lastName` fields. You can
   do this as part of the migration SQL script that you run. The easiest way to
   do this is to generate the migration script to add the fields using
   `prisma migrate` and then modify the script to copy the existing data in the
   `name` field to the `firstName` field (maybe with the help of VSCode Copilot
   😅).
3. Narrow app to consume `firstName` and `lastName` by only writing to those
   fields and removing the fallback to the `name` field.
4. Narrow db to provide `firstName` and `lastName` by removing the `name` field.
   So now you can remove the `name` field from the db schema.

By following this strategy, you can ensure zero downtime deploys and schema
migrations.

### Multi-Branch Development

When working with Prisma and SQLite in a multi-branch development environment, it's essential to handle migrations carefully to avoid conflicts and ensure a smooth development process. If migrations are applied on a feature branch but not reflected in the Prisma schema on the branch being switched to, it can lead to issues and unexpected behavior.

I recommend creating a dedicated SQLite database file for each branch your work on.

1. Duplicate your baseline SQLite database file. In most cases this would be the one in your `dev` branch.
2. Rename the duplicate file with an identifier that reflects the branch name (e.g., `workflow_engine_branch_data.db`).
3. Change the `DATABASE_PATH` value inside the `.env` file to the current branch database (e.g., `DATABASE_PATH="./prisma/workflow_engine_branch_data.db"`)



## Seeding Production

In this application we have Role-based Access Control implemented. We initialize
the database with `admin` and `user` roles with appropriate permissions.

This is done in the `migration.sql` file that's included in the template. If you
need to seed the production database, modifying migration files manually is the
recommended approach to ensure it's reproducible.

The trick is not all of us are really excited about writing raw SQL (especially
if what you need to seed is a lot of data), so here's an easy way to help out:

1. Create a script very similar to our `prisma/seed.ts` file which creates all
   the data you want to seed.
   ```sh nonumber
   cp prisma/seed.ts ./prod-seed.local.ts
   ```
   Then modify that file to create the data you want to seed.
1. Create a temporary database file to seed the data into.
   ```sh
   DATABASE_URL=file:./seed.local.db npx prisma migrate reset --skip-seed --force
   ```
1. Run the custom seed script locally to generate the data you want to seed.
   ```sh
   DATABASE_URL=file:./seed.local.db npx tsx ./prod-seed.local.ts
   ```
1. Create a "dump" of the seed database using the `sqlite3` command line tool.
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 ./prisma/seed.local.db .dump > seed.local.sql
   ```
1. Copy the relevant bits from the `seed.local.sql` file into your
   `migration.sql` file. The `seed.local.sql` will include create table/index
   lines etc. which should already be in your `migration.sql`. You probably just
   want `INSERT` commands.
1. Deploy your app and verify that the data was seeded correctly.

If your app has already applied all migrations, then the changes to the
`migration.sql` won't be applied (because prisma's already applied it). So then
you can run the following command to apply the migration:

```sh nonumber
fly ssh console -C "npx prisma migrate reset --skip-seed --force" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
```

> **WARNING**: This will reset your database and apply all migrations. Continue
> reading if you want to avoid this.

If you have existing data in your production database and you'd like to seed it
with more data without performing a migration, then it's a bit more involved.

1. Backup your production database.
1. Create a new database file (locally) with the data you want to seed.
1. Create a "dump" of the seed database using the `sqlite3` command line tool.
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 seed.db .dump > seed.sql
   ```
1. Copy the `seed.sql` file to your production volume next to your database (via
   `fly sftp`)
1. SSH into your production server and run the following command:
   ```sh nonumber
   sqlite3 /tmp/data.db < seed.sql
   ```
1. Import the data into your database via litefs:
   ```sh nonumber
   litefs import -name sqlite.db /tmp/data.db
   ```
1. Verify that your production database has been seeded correctly. If it hasn't,
   then restore your backup (asap).

## Backups

### LiteFS Cloud Backups

LiteFS Cloud is a service offered by Fly.io for managing backup and restore
functionality.

This is the simplest method for backing up your database.

It offers the ability to restore your database to any point in time in the last
30 days, with 5 minute granularity.

Fly.io has some great documentation on how to set this up:

- [Pricing](https://fly.io/docs/about/pricing/#litefs-cloud)
- [LiteFS Cloud Setup](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/cloud-backups/)
- [Restoring DB with LiteFS Cloud](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/cloud-restore/)
- [Disaster Recovery with LiteFS Cloud](https://fly.io/docs/litefs/disaster-recovery/)

The following is a summary of the steps to set up LiteFS Cloud:

1. Create a LiteFS Cloud cluster in your Fly.io dashboard:
   https://fly.io/dashboard/personal/litefs
   - Take note of the auth token, you'll need it in the next step
1. Set the `LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN` to the token from your dashboard:
   ```sh
   fly secrets set LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN="LITEFS_CLOUD_TOKEN_HERE" --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. You should now be able to restore backups from the LiteFS dashboard.

### Manual DB Backups

Manual DB backups can be taken/restored using `litefs` commands:

- `litefs export`: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/export/
- `litefs import`: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/import/

**Make sure to keep the backup in a secure location. Your DB backup will contain
user information and password hashes!**

You can manually create a backup for your database using the following steps:

1. SSH into your fly instance:
   ```sh
   fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. Create a `backups` folder:
   ```sh
   mkdir /backups
   ```
1. Create a backup file using `litefs export`, and exit the console (it is
   recommended to name the exported file with the current date):
   ```sh
   litefs export -name sqlite.db /backups/backup-2023-10-10.db
   exit
   ```
1. Use sftp to download the backup file:
   ```sh
   fly ssh sftp get /backups/backup-2023-10-10.db --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```

You can now store this backup file wherever you like, such as an S3 bucket
(again, make sure it's a secure location!).

See the fly docs for more info: https://fly.io/docs/litefs/backup/

### Manual DB restoration

**WARNING - THIS OVERWRITES YOUR DATABASE, YOU CAN LOSE DATA!! TAKE ANOTHER
BACKUP OF THE CURRENT DATABASE BEFORE DOING THIS!!**

1. Establish an sftp session with the fly instance and upload the backup file to
   the server using `put`:
   ```sh
   fly ssh sftp shell --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   put backup-2023-10-10.db
   ```
1. Quit the sftp session with CTRL+C
1. SSH into the fly instance:
   ```sh
   fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]
   ```
1. Restore the database from the backup file using `litefs import`
   ```sh
   litefs import -name sqlite.db /backup-2023-10-10.db
   ```
1. Exit the ssh session
   ```sh
   exit
   ```

## Troubleshooting

### Faulty Prisma Migration

If you accidentally run a faulty migration on prod DB, and you see this message
in the logs:

```sh
migrate found failed migrations in the target database, new migrations will not be applied. Read more about how to resolve migration issues in a production database: https://pris.ly/d/migrate-resolve
```

You've got a few options:

1. If you don't care about the data, you can delete the app on fly and re-deploy
   it after deleting/fixing the faulty migration.
2. If you have a recent backup of the DB, you can restore it and re-deploy the
   app after deleting/fixing the faulty migration. **(Make sure that the backup
   isn't too old, otherwise you'll lose data)**
   - You can fix a faulty migration by either editing the migration SQL file, or
     by deleting the particular migration folder from `prisma/migrations` and
     re-generating the migration after fixing the error.
3. If you do care about the data and don't have a backup, you can follow these
   steps:

   1. Comment out the
      [`exec` section from `litefs.yml` file](https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack/blob/main/other/litefs.yml#L31-L37).

   ```yml
   # exec:
   #   - cmd: npx prisma migrate deploy
   #     if-candidate: true

   #   - cmd: npm start
   ```

   2. Commit this change and deploy the app to fly.
      - This will make sure that after building the dockerfile and deploying it
        to the fly machine, `npx prisma migrate deploy` and `npm start` commands won't be executed.
   3. Now that the main machine is up and running, you can SSH into it by
      running `fly ssh console --app [YOUR_APP_NAME]` in the terminal.
   4. Create a backup of the DB and download it by following the steps mentioned
      in the [Manual DB Backups](#manual-db-backups) section.
   5. Make a copy of the downloaded DB backup file and store it in a secure
      location (If something were to go wrong, we have a backup of the backup).
   6. Write SQL or use a tool like
      [DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) to remove the last
      (failed) entry from `_prisma_migrations` table from the downloaded DB
      backup file.
      - If you're using DB Browser for SQLite but your DB isn't selectable when
        selecting a file to open, change DB file extension to `sqlite` from
        `db`. **Make sure to change it back to `db` before uploading it to the
        fly machine**.
   7. Follow the steps mentioned in the
      [Manual DB restoration](#manual-db-restoration) section to restore the
      modified DB backup file to the fly machine.
   8. Now the DB is restored, but if you deploy the app with the faulty
      migration, it will fail again. So you need to delete/fix the faulty
      migration.
      - You can fix a faulty migration by either editing the migration SQL file,
        or by deleting the particular migration folder from `prisma/migrations`
        and re-generating the migration after fixing the error.
   9. Uncomment the
      [`exec` section from `litefs.yml` file](https://github.com/epicweb-dev/epic-stack/blob/main/other/litefs.yml#L31-L37).

   ```yml
   exec:
     - cmd: npx prisma migrate deploy
       if-candidate: true

     - cmd: npm start
   ```

   10. Commit this change and deploy the app to fly :tada:

   NOTE: Steps 5-7 can be skipped if you can write SQL to remove the faulty
   migration from the DB. You can use the following SQL query to remove the
   faulty migration from the DB:

   ```sql
   DELETE FROM _prisma_migrations WHERE name = 'migration_name';
   ```

   Make sure to replace `migration_name` with the name of the faulty migration.

This is particularly hard because of how CONSUL leases work. You cannot just
simply spin up another machine and access your database from it, because only
one machine can get the primary lease. So you have to disable exec commands so
the machine that has primary lease can start up, then you can SSH into it and
fix the DB.
