docs/icons.md, before:

# Icons

The Epic Stack uses SVG sprites for
[optimal icon performance](https://benadam.me/thoughts/react-svg-sprites/).
You'll find raw SVGs in the `./other/svg-icons` directory. These are then
compiled into a sprite using the `npm run build:icons` script which generates
the `app/components/ui/icon.tsx` file and its associated `icon.svg` file.

You can use [Sly](https://github.com/jacobparis-insiders/sly/tree/main/cli) to
add new icons from the command line.

To add the `trash`, `pencil-1`, and `avatar` icons, run:

```sh
npx sly add @radix-ui/icons trash pencil-1 avatar
```

If you don't specify the icons, Sly will show an interactive list of all the
icons available in the `@radix-ui/icons` collection and let you select the ones
you want to add.

Sly has been configured in the Epic Stack to automatically add the icons to the
`./other/svg-icons` directory and to run the `npm run build:icons` script
automatically, so there are no extra steps to take. You can see the
configuration in the `./other/sly/sly.json` file.

The SVGs used by default in the Epic Stack come from
[icons.radix-ui.com](https://icons.radix-ui.com/). You can download additional
SVG icons from there, or provide your own. Once you've added new files in the
directory, run `npm run build:icons` and you can then use the `Icon` component
to render it. The `icon` prop is the name of the file without the `.svg`
extension. We recommend using `kebab-case` filenames rather than `PascalCase` to
avoid casing issues with different operating systems.

Note that [`rmx-cli`](https://github.com/kiliman/rmx-cli) (the tool used to
generate this sprite) automatically removes `width` and `height` props from your
SVGs to ensure they scale properly.

You can also customize the template used for the `Icon` component by editing the
`./other/svg-icon-template.txt` file. `rmx-cli` will simply add the
`type IconNames` at the bottom of the template based on the available icons in
the sprite.

By default, all the icons will have a height and width of `1em` so they should
match the font-size of the text they're next to. You can also customize the size
using the `size` prop.

Commit message:

feat: bring build-icons into the epic stack (#340)
Co-authored-by: Jacob Paris <jacob@jacobparis.com>

docs/icons.md, after:

# Icons

The Epic Stack uses SVG sprites for
[optimal icon performance](https://benadam.me/thoughts/react-svg-sprites/).
You'll find raw SVGs in the `./other/svg-icons` directory. These are then
compiled into a sprite using the `npm run build:icons` script which generates
the `icon.svg` file and an `icons.json` manifest file that allows Typescript to
pick up the names of the icons.

You can use [Sly](https://github.com/jacobparis-insiders/sly/tree/main/cli) to
add new icons from the command line.

To add the `trash`, `pencil-1`, and `avatar` icons, run:

```sh
npx sly add @radix-ui/icons trash pencil-1 avatar
```

If you don't specify the icons, Sly will show an interactive list of all the
icons available in the `@radix-ui/icons` collection and let you select the ones
you want to add.

Sly has been configured in the Epic Stack to automatically add the icons to the
`./other/svg-icons` directory and to run the `npm run build:icons` script
automatically, so there are no extra steps to take. You can see the
configuration in the `./other/sly/sly.json` file.

The SVGs used by default in the Epic Stack come from
[icons.radix-ui.com](https://icons.radix-ui.com/). You can download additional
SVG icons from there, or provide your own. Once you've added new files in the
directory, run `npm run build:icons` and you can then use the `Icon` component
to render it. The `icon` prop is the name of the file without the `.svg`
extension. We recommend using `kebab-case` filenames rather than `PascalCase` to
avoid casing issues with different operating systems.

Note that the `./other/build-icons.ts` file automatically removes `width` and
`height` props from your SVGs to ensure they scale properly.

By default, all the icons will have a height and width of `1em` so they should
match the font-size of the text they're next to. You can also customize the size
using the `size` prop.
