docs/monitoring.md, before:

# Monitoring

This document describes how to get [Sentry](https://sentry.io/) (the Epic
application monitoring provider) set up for error, performance, and replay
monitoring.

> **NOTE**: this is an optional step and only needed if you want monitoring in
> production.

## SaaS vs Self-Hosted

Sentry offers both a [SaaS solution](https://sentry.io/) and
[self-hosted solution](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/). This guide
assumes you are using SaaS but the guide still works with self-hosted with a few
modifications.

## Signup

You can sign up for Sentry and create a Remix project from visiting
[this url](https://sentry.io/signup/?project_platform=javascript-remix) and
filling out the signup form.

## Onboarding

Once you see the onboarding page which has the DSN, copy that somewhere (this
becomes `SENTRY_DSN`). Then click
[this](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/settings/:orgslug/developer-settings/new-internal/)
to create an internal integration. Give it a name and add the scope for
`Releases:Admin`. Press Save, find the auth token at the bottom of the page
under "Tokens", and copy that to secure location (this becomes
`SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`). Then visit the organization settings page and copy that
organization slug (`SENTRY_ORG_SLUG`).

Now, set the secrets in Fly.io:

```sh
fly secrets set SENTRY_DSN=<your_dsn> SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN=<your_auth_token> SENTRY_ORG=<your_org_slug> SENTRY_PROJECT=javascript-remix
```

Note that `javascript-remix` is the name of the default Remix project in Sentry
and if you use a different project name you'll need to update that value here.

Commit message:

Bring in the vite-sentry plugin (#660)
* Sentry changes

* Update documentation

* Changes to include sentry-vite plugin

* Docker secret

* Disable if mode not production

* Remove formatting change

* Update docs/monitoring.md

Co-authored-by: Kent C. Dodds <me@kentcdodds.com>

* Uncomment plugin

* Uncomment commit sha vars

* Formatting

* Dockerfile

* Replace maps

* Replace ternary

* Vite config update

---------

Co-authored-by: Kent C. Dodds <me@kentcdodds.com>

docs/monitoring.md, after:

# Monitoring

This document describes how to get [Sentry](https://sentry.io/) (the Epic
application monitoring provider) set up for error, performance, and replay
monitoring.

> **NOTE**: this is an optional step and only needed if you want monitoring in
> production.

## SaaS vs Self-Hosted

Sentry offers both a [SaaS solution](https://sentry.io/) and
[self-hosted solution](https://develop.sentry.dev/self-hosted/). This guide
assumes you are using SaaS but the guide still works with self-hosted with a few
modifications.

## Signup

You can sign up for Sentry and create a Remix project from visiting
[this url](https://sentry.io/signup/?project_platform=javascript-remix) and
filling out the signup form.

## Setting up the sentry-vite plugin

Once you see the onboarding page which has the DSN, copy that somewhere (this
becomes `SENTRY_DSN`). Now, set the sentry dsn secret in Fly.io to be used as an
env var during runtime:

```sh
fly secrets set SENTRY_DSN=<your_dsn>
```

See the guide for the remix
[here](https://docs.sentry.io/platforms/javascript/guides/remix/). Run the
installation wizard but note that some of the steps included already exist in
this codebase so be sure to remove any duplication.

To generate the auth token, click
[this](https://sentry.io/orgredirect/settings/:orgslug/developer-settings/new-internal/)
to create an internal integration (which grants the selected capabilities to the
recipient, similar to how RBAC works). Give it a name and add the scope for
`Releases:Admin`. Press Save, find the auth token at the bottom of the page
under "Tokens", and copy that to secure location (this becomes
`SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN`). Then visit the organization settings page and copy that
organization slug (`SENTRY_ORG`), and the slug name for your project too
(`SENTRY_PROJECT`).

Uncomment the sentry-vite plugin in `vite.config` and the build command in the
'build' section of the Dockerfile, which shows how to pass the
`SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` (below) as a docker secret, so it is available to the vite
config when `npm run build` is run (you will need to do the same for
`SENTRY_ORG` and `SENTRY_PROJECT`). Note that these do not need to be added to
the `env.server` env vars schema, as they are only used during the build and not
the runtime.

The plugin will create sentry releases for you and automatically associate
commits during the vite build once you set the `SENTRY_AUTH_TOKEN` in
[your GitHub action secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions).
In this setup we have utilized a simple strategy for naming releases of using
the commit sha, passed in as a build arg via the GitHub action workflow.
